located just a few minutes outside of
downtown Pittsburgh lies the venerable
steel mill town of Aliquippa PA a
community with a rich football tradition
in the past 20 years no school in the
western Pennsylvania Interscholastic
Athletic League has won more football
games than Aliquippa high meanwhile its
legendary history dates back even
further many a name has at one time or
another grace the halls of this high
school in this community Mike Ditka Ty
Law and Sean Gilbert was the National
Player of the Year
Darrelle Revis was drafted in the first
round this year and and heck all those
kids fathers and brothers and uncles
were all great players here yet
Aliquippa is a town that's much more
than just football yesteryear the
banners on display in the gym point to
the dominance on the hardwood as well
especially in recent years as the
Klipsch boys basketball team has
captured the WPIAL title in four of the
past five seasons perhaps the main man
responsible for the school's recent run
of success in both sports is the subject
of this week's story he's two sports
star athlete Jonathan Baldwin a teenager
that has the region's hopes in both
sports right in the palm of his hand
- plays on the gridiron from the seasons
past still have the folks of Aliquippa
talking and to those that were there to
witness it firsthand the memories are as
fresh as the night they unfolded use a
sophomore a little pass over the middle
get center they had three track guys on
their team and they had a ten-yard head
start and he doesn't burn them all made
a catch against New Brighton last year
that was phenomenal one hand catching
the endzone they ruled incomplete but if
you watch the tape he was in you know I
think Jonathan's futures ahead of him I
don't think he's even scratch the
surface of how good he can be perhaps
that's because despite the outward
appearances young Jonathan Baldwin
wasn't always that talented athlete in
fact when he was 12 years old those
closest to him couldn't even see a
future in athletics he was always a
little too heavy well not little between
25 and 30 pounds too heavy so every year
you know he would come home he would
sign up and he would work so hard to
make the weight well as you can see he's
not a chubby person so I'm like what are
you gonna lose you don't have anything
to lose we have like a 1% body fat it
wasn't even a reason for me to keep
playing for every week to work hard out
there and then I never made the weight
so I just stopped playing and just kept
playing basketball him being so tall one
of the boys in school say try out for
the basketball team never had played
basketball he tried out you had to have
a clue of what he's doing and it was
kind of funny cuz the first game I've
seen him clever I don't think this is
smart for you you know it regardless of
how things may have appeared back then
his father always knew some way somehow
the spotlight would eventually shine
brightest on his son and he was coming
up we always told him be humble and
healed we knew he's gone
a lot of crashing all this stuff but you
know this most of all we always told him
to be humble be expecting you know when
you're ready to play it's gonna come to
you like that
today Baldwin doesn't let the fame or
the notoriety go to his head in fact far
from it as far as attention his stuff
goes it really doesn't get into that too
much you know people have put them on
pedestals when people have ran up to him
and made statements it you know he'd say
thank you but he doesn't let that get to
his head because he understands you know
it only takes one injury he doesn't want
to be the headliner he would prefer if
the whole football team or the whole
basketball team we're all in the same
situation in Sam he's a kid who's
willing to help other people you don't
want to look down at anybody so that's a
good kid qualities at longtime Aliquippa
high school football coach Mike's Milich
noticed from almost the beginning the
obvious talent is the size in his speed
you know it's it's hard to to teach
someone to do six six and run to four
three a 40 I'm just proud of him for his
work ethic both on the field and in
school he's done a real nice job in
school and that's why he's gotten as
many offers as he had the best
intangible about Jonathan is Jonathan's
a good guy you know I mean not too many
people have that caliber to be a good
player and a good guy Jonathan's both of
those but you know like coach panic
stage it's hard to teach 66 215 pounds
you know what I mean he's probably one
of the biggest wide receivers probably
in the country and I know he's probably
one of the biggest wide receivers around
here but you know you put those two and
two together yeah it comes out as a
winner
certainly the talented teen has a gift
but he doesn't take anything for granted
which is why his work ethic has become
legendary worked very diligently at what
he's done it's not just natural he's
worked very hard at learning to catch
the ball and to run and to lift weights
and do those things so all the people
who we see the finished product don't
see the running the steps and lifting
weights at six o'clock in the morning
those kind
since some of the same thing wake up
ugly wrong 6 o'clock would be 500
push-ups right that I'd go running then
when I'm done with that
I'd go lift weights probably bought 2
hours later
I'll go play basketball so it's
basically the same routine every day saw
me already for both whenever any time I
had to play a different sport I'll be
ready for it
all under the watchful eye of his mother
the senior stays focused all the while
keeping his eyes squarely on the prize I
want to keep him grounded I don't want
him to get caught up in the media hyping
for him to lose focus I just want him to
to realize that you killed my son and
you're in high school so don't get
carried away
people probably see me as a person on
his Jonathan Baldwin my mom and dad they
all the same although it's not he knows
Jonathan Phil I know back in elementary
school middle school so just like that
whatever it is she's doing it seems to
be working
since midway through his freshman season
Baldwin has wild the locals with his
rare combination of size and athletic
ability I'm tall six six
so he's 20 pounds I run it for three so
that helps me and I can catch it always
hopes and it's not just on the gridiron
either on the hardwood the senior is a
do-it-all talent for the defending state
champions in basketball is different a
lot of different other other taller
players but and here it's not too many
tall players like that's a little
advantage and I can jump high and I can
shoot and whether it's on the gridiron
or on the hardwood expect nothing but
success from Baldwin perhaps with an
assist from his mom after all no matter
what the means Baldwin is simply too
talented and too hard of a worker to
fail